README.md, before:

Method of Uncertainty Minimization using Polynomial Chaos Expansions
====================================================================

*David A. Sheen*

*National Institute of Standards and Technology*

[Download this software from
GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/mumpce_py)

Welcome to the home page for the Method of Uncertainty Minimization
using Polynomial Chaos Expansions (MUM-PCE). This software is a Python
package that implements the methodology presented in [Sheen & Wang
(2011)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.combustflame.2011.05.010), [Wang &
Sheen (2015)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pecs.2014.10.002), and [Sheen
& Manion (2014)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp5041844). The software does
the following things:

> -   Compiles a database of experimental measurements
> -   Constrains a physical model against the measurements in the
>     database (optimization)
> -   Determines the uncertainty in the physical model parameters based
>     on the uncertainty in the measurements (uncertainty analysis)
> -   Identifies measurements that are inconsistent with the constrained
>     model (outlier detection)
> -   Identifies measurements that do not strongly constrain the
>     constrained model (experimental design)

This implementation cannot be used out of the box. Instead, it is
necessary for the user to create an interface to the user's own code,
which will be specific to that application. Two examples of how to do
this are provided. One is a toy model which demonstrates how an
interface might be written; it is intended to be as complete as possible
while also being simple. The other example is an interface to the
reaction kinetics program Cantera; this sort of interface probably
represents the worst use case possible, with multiple heterogeneous
measurements and a highly complex interface to a detailed model.

The package is implemented in a way to be as general as possible, which
means that efficiency is often sacrificed in order to implement this
generality. Expert users may be able to modify the code in such a way as
to make it more efficient for their particular application. No support
is provided for this adventure, but please let me know if you are
successful.

Legal
-----

This software is subject to the [NIST Software
License](https://www.nist.gov/director/licensing) (revised as of July
2017). This license can be found in the GitHub repo in the file named
LICENSE.

Contents
--------

Contact
-------

David Sheen

-   [Email](mailto:david.sheen@nist.gov)
-   [NIST Staff Page](https://www.nist.gov/people/david-sheen)
-   [GitHub profile](https://github.com/davidasheen)

Links
-----

[NIST GitHub Organization](https://github.com/usnistgov)

[NIST Chemical Informatics Research
Group](https://www.nist.gov/mml/csd/chemical-informatics-research-group)

[NIST home page](http://nist.gov)

Commit message:

Updated README.md to point to pages.nist.gov/mumpce_py

README.md, after:

Method of Uncertainty Minimization using Polynomial Chaos Expansions
====================================================================

*David A. Sheen*

*National Institute of Standards and Technology*

[Download this software from
GitHub](https://github.com/usnistgov/mumpce_py)

Welcome to the home page for the Method of Uncertainty Minimization
using Polynomial Chaos Expansions (MUM-PCE). This software is a Python
package that implements the methodology presented in [Sheen & Wang
(2011)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.combustflame.2011.05.010), [Wang &
Sheen (2015)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pecs.2014.10.002), and [Sheen
& Manion (2014)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp5041844). The software does
the following things:

> -   Compiles a database of experimental measurements
> -   Constrains a physical model against the measurements in the
>     database (optimization)
> -   Determines the uncertainty in the physical model parameters based
>     on the uncertainty in the measurements (uncertainty analysis)
> -   Identifies measurements that are inconsistent with the constrained
>     model (outlier detection)
> -   Identifies measurements that do not strongly constrain the
>     constrained model (experimental design)

This implementation cannot be used out of the box. Instead, it is
necessary for the user to create an interface to the user's own code,
which will be specific to that application. Two examples of how to do
this are provided. One is a toy model which demonstrates how an
interface might be written; it is intended to be as complete as possible
while also being simple. The other example is an interface to the
reaction kinetics program Cantera; this sort of interface probably
represents the worst use case possible, with multiple heterogeneous
measurements and a highly complex interface to a detailed model.

The package is implemented in a way to be as general as possible, which
means that efficiency is often sacrificed in order to implement this
generality. Expert users may be able to modify the code in such a way as
to make it more efficient for their particular application. No support
is provided for this adventure, but please let me know if you are
successful.

Legal
-----

This software is subject to the [NIST Software
License](https://www.nist.gov/director/licensing) (revised as of July
2017). This license can be found in the GitHub repo in the file named
LICENSE.

Contents
--------

A good starting point is to follow the examples located at https://pages.nist.gov/mumpce_py/, for which there are jupyter notebooks (cantera_examples.ipynb and toy_model_example.ipynb) along with raw data files located within mumpce_py/source/ 

Contact
-------

David Sheen

-   [Email](mailto:david.sheen@nist.gov)
-   [NIST Staff Page](https://www.nist.gov/people/david-sheen)
-   [GitHub profile](https://github.com/davidasheen)

Links
-----

[NIST GitHub Organization](https://github.com/usnistgov)

[NIST Chemical Informatics Research
Group](https://www.nist.gov/mml/csd/chemical-informatics-research-group)

[NIST home page](http://nist.gov)
